README.md, before:

# Nuxt Run

> Starter kit for nuxt projects with usefull features for fast development. IE11 is supported!

## Build Setup

``` bash
# install dependencies
$ npm install

For detailed explanation on how things work in nuxt, check out [Nuxt.js docs](https://nuxtjs.org).
```

## Essential Elements
### The grid (flexbox)

The grid class contains the shortname of the viewport (defined in config.scss) and the amount of grids:<br>
{viewport}{gridamount} -> "w12".<br>
If you want to push or pull grid-elements, use "w-left-4".
Grid-Elements are wrapped by the class "gridWrap".
``` bash
<div class="gridWrap">
    <h2 class="w12 mw8">Grid Example</h2>
    <div class="w12" style="background: lightgrey;margin-top:5px;">w12</div>
    <div class="w6" style="background: lightgrey;margin-top:5px;">w6</div>
    <div class="w6" style="background: lightgrey;margin-top:5px;">w6</div>
    <div class="w4 w-left-4" style="background: lightgrey;margin-top:5px;">w4</div>
    <div class="w4" style="background: lightgrey;margin-top:5px;">w4</div>
</div>
```

### Accordion
To use accordions import the mixin to the wished component.

```bash
import accordion from "~/mixins/accordion";
export default {
    mixins: [accordion]
}
```
``` bash
<div class="accordion" data-accordion :class="{'active' : currentActiveAccordionId === 0}">
  <button class="accordion-trigger" @click="toggleAccordion($event, 0)">Accordion 1</button>
  <div class="accordion-content" data-accordion-content>
      <div class="accordion-content-wrapper">
          Accordion Text 1
      </div>
  </div>
</div>
```
### Modalbox
To use the modalbox import the mixin to the wished component.
``` bash
import modalbox from "~/mixins/modalbox";

export default {
    mixins: [modalbox]
}
```
The content inside the modalbox will be moved to the end of the HTML-Body.<br>
``` bash
<a href="javascript:void(0);" data-modalbox-trigger @click="showModalbox(0)">Modalbox Trigger</a>
<portal to="portaldestination">
  <div class="modalbox" data-modalbox="0" v-click-outside="closeModalbox">
      I am a modalbox!
      <a href="javascript:void(0);" @click="closeModalbox()">close Modalbox</a>
  </div>
</portal>
```
### Swiper/Slider
For detailed explaination (for example settings ect.), checkout https://github.com/surmon-china/vue-awesome-swiper
``` bash
<swiper :options="gallerySwiperOptions" ref="galleryswiper">
  <swiper-slide>
      <picture>
          <source media="(min-width: 650px)" srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
          <source media="(min-width: 465px)" srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
          <img src="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300" alt="alt">
      </picture>
  </swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>
      <picture>
          <source media="(min-width: 650px)" srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
          <source media="(min-width: 465px)" srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
          <img src="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300" alt="alt">
      </picture>
  </swiper-slide>
</swiper>
```
### Google Maps
For detailed explaination (for example settings ect.), checkout https://github.com/xkjyeah/vue-google-maps
```
<GmapMap :center="{lat: 50.582734, lng: 10.027333}" :zoom="16" :options="{styles: mapStyles, scrollwheel: false, disableDefaultUI: true}" map-type-id="roadmap">
  <GmapMarker :position="{lat: 50.582734, lng: 10.027333}" :icon="markerStyles" @click="toggleInfoWindow(m,index)" />

  <gmap-info-window
          :options="infoOptions"
          :position="infoWindowPos"
          :opened="infoWinOpen"
          @closeclick="infoWinOpen=false"
  >
      <div v-html="infoContent"></div>
  </gmap-info-window>

</GmapMap>
```
### Image Lazyload
You can force images to be lazyloaded for an improved site performance.
Just change srcset to data-srcset and scr to data-src and also add 'class="lazyload"'.
```
<picture>
  <source media="(min-width: 650px)" data-srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
  <source media="(min-width: 465px)" data-srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
  <img data-src="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300" alt="alt" class="lazyload">
</picture>
```
### Form Fields Validation
This validation checks the form field values while typing. Just import the validations-mixin.
``` bash
import validation from "~/mixins/validation";

export default {
    mixins: [validation],
}
```
and apply the following data-attributes to you wished fom fields for example:
``` bash
<input type="password" v-model="newsletterData.password" data-validate data-validate-minlength="8">
```
data-validate checks if form field is not empty and not unchecked <br>
data-validate-minlength defines the required min length of the form field's value

``` bash
this.validationSuccessfully
```
returns true in your component, if the validation is successfully

### Multi language
Nuxt-Run has integrated nuxt-i18n for multi language. <br>
For detailed explaination, checkout https://github.com/nuxt-community/nuxt-i18n

1. change/add/remove languages in nuxt.config.js
2. define the translation in /lang/text-translation.js
3. place language vars into your components, for example {{ $t('siteheader.headline') }}
4. if you also want to translate the url paths, change it in /lang/url-translation.js

#### Language Switcher
``` bash
<nuxt-link :to="switchLocalePath('en')">English</nuxt-link>
<nuxt-link :to="switchLocalePath('de')">Deutsch</nuxt-link>
```

#### The Nuxt-Link
If you decide to use nuxt-i18n, you have to modify the nuxt-link as shown here:
``` bash
<nuxt-link :to="localePath('subpage')">Subpage</nuxt-link>
```
instead of:
``` bash
<nuxt-link to="/subpage">Subpage</nuxt-link>
```

### Usefull Stuff
#### Robots
is integrated (https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nuxtjs/robots)
#### Sitemap
is integrated (https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nuxtjs/sitemap)
#### Focus inputs
This Vue Directive also solves issues with focussing inputs on mobile devices!
``` bash
<button v-focus-input="'.siteheader-search'">Focus search input</button>
```
#### Click Outside
Vue Directive to call a method function if the user clicks outside that element.
Append this to your wished HTML-element:
``` bash
v-click-outside="yourFunction"
```
#### Scroll To Element
https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-scrollto <br>
Have a nice smooth scroll to any element you want.
You can use it in your method functions:
``` bash
this.$scrollTo(this.$el);
this.$scrollTo(document.querySelector('.sitefooter'));
```
or as clickable element for users:
``` bash
<a href="#" v-scroll-to="'#element'">Scroll to #element</a>
 
<div id="element">
    Hi. I'm #element.
</div>
```

#### Set, delete or get value of cookie
Just import the utils/cookie file. So you can use the functions where ever you need it (plugin-files as well).
``` bash
import {getCookieValueOf, setCookie, deleteCookie} from '~/utils/cookies';

getCookieValueOf('yourCookieName');
setCookie('yourCookieName', 'your value');
deleteCookie('yourCookieName');
```

#### Format seconds to HHMMSS (for example: 00:05:00)
Just import the utils/toHHMMSS file. So you can use the functions where ever you need it (plugin-files as well).
``` bash
import {toHHMMSS} from '~/utils/toHHMMSS';

toHHMMSS(300, true, true, true);
```

#### JS Polyfills

Following polyfills are already integrated (to support older browsers like IE11):<br><br>
      polyfill-entries <br>
      polyfill-intersection-observer<br>
      polyfill-object-fit (https://github.com/constancecchen/object-fit-polyfill)
      
To enable object-fit: cover on images and videos for older browsers add
``` bash
data-object-fit="cover"
```
to the Image-HTML-Tag. 
! Define it also in the CSS as usual for modern browsers. !
      
### Browser Support
**iOS** > 9  
**Android** > 4.4  
**IE** = 11  
**Edge** > 12  
**Firefox** > 50  
**Chrome** > 55

Commit message:

updated readme add validation note

README.md, after:

# Nuxt Run

> Starter kit for nuxt projects with usefull features for fast development. IE11 is supported!

## Build Setup

``` bash
# install dependencies
$ npm install

For detailed explanation on how things work in nuxt, check out [Nuxt.js docs](https://nuxtjs.org).
```

## Essential Elements
### The grid (flexbox)

The grid class contains the shortname of the viewport (defined in config.scss) and the amount of grids:<br>
{viewport}{gridamount} -> "w12".<br>
If you want to push or pull grid-elements, use "w-left-4".
Grid-Elements are wrapped by the class "gridWrap".
``` bash
<div class="gridWrap">
    <h2 class="w12 mw8">Grid Example</h2>
    <div class="w12" style="background: lightgrey;margin-top:5px;">w12</div>
    <div class="w6" style="background: lightgrey;margin-top:5px;">w6</div>
    <div class="w6" style="background: lightgrey;margin-top:5px;">w6</div>
    <div class="w4 w-left-4" style="background: lightgrey;margin-top:5px;">w4</div>
    <div class="w4" style="background: lightgrey;margin-top:5px;">w4</div>
</div>
```

### Accordion
To use accordions import the mixin to the wished component.

```bash
import accordion from "~/mixins/accordion";
export default {
    mixins: [accordion]
}
```
``` bash
<div class="accordion" data-accordion :class="{'active' : currentActiveAccordionId === 0}">
  <button class="accordion-trigger" @click="toggleAccordion($event, 0)">Accordion 1</button>
  <div class="accordion-content" data-accordion-content>
      <div class="accordion-content-wrapper">
          Accordion Text 1
      </div>
  </div>
</div>
```
### Modalbox
To use the modalbox import the mixin to the wished component.
``` bash
import modalbox from "~/mixins/modalbox";

export default {
    mixins: [modalbox]
}
```
The content inside the modalbox will be moved to the end of the HTML-Body.<br>
``` bash
<a href="javascript:void(0);" data-modalbox-trigger @click="showModalbox(0)">Modalbox Trigger</a>
<portal to="portaldestination">
  <div class="modalbox" data-modalbox="0" v-click-outside="closeModalbox">
      I am a modalbox!
      <a href="javascript:void(0);" @click="closeModalbox()">close Modalbox</a>
  </div>
</portal>
```
### Swiper/Slider
For detailed explaination (for example settings ect.), checkout https://github.com/surmon-china/vue-awesome-swiper
``` bash
<swiper :options="gallerySwiperOptions" ref="galleryswiper">
  <swiper-slide>
      <picture>
          <source media="(min-width: 650px)" srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
          <source media="(min-width: 465px)" srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
          <img src="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300" alt="alt">
      </picture>
  </swiper-slide>
  <swiper-slide>
      <picture>
          <source media="(min-width: 650px)" srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
          <source media="(min-width: 465px)" srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
          <img src="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300" alt="alt">
      </picture>
  </swiper-slide>
</swiper>
```
### Google Maps
For detailed explaination (for example settings ect.), checkout https://github.com/xkjyeah/vue-google-maps
```
<GmapMap :center="{lat: 50.582734, lng: 10.027333}" :zoom="16" :options="{styles: mapStyles, scrollwheel: false, disableDefaultUI: true}" map-type-id="roadmap">
  <GmapMarker :position="{lat: 50.582734, lng: 10.027333}" :icon="markerStyles" @click="toggleInfoWindow(m,index)" />

  <gmap-info-window
          :options="infoOptions"
          :position="infoWindowPos"
          :opened="infoWinOpen"
          @closeclick="infoWinOpen=false"
  >
      <div v-html="infoContent"></div>
  </gmap-info-window>

</GmapMap>
```
### Image Lazyload
You can force images to be lazyloaded for an improved site performance.
Just change srcset to data-srcset and scr to data-src and also add 'class="lazyload"'.
```
<picture>
  <source media="(min-width: 650px)" data-srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
  <source media="(min-width: 465px)" data-srcset="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300">
  <img data-src="https://via.placeholder.com/1920x300" alt="alt" class="lazyload">
</picture>
```
### Form Fields Validation
This validation checks the form field values while typing. Just import the validations-mixin.
``` bash
import validation from "~/mixins/validation";

export default {
    mixins: [validation],
}
```
and apply the following data-attributes to you wished fom fields for example:
``` bash
<input type="password" v-model="newsletterData.password" data-validate data-validate-minlength="8">
```
data-validate checks if form field is not empty and not unchecked <br>
data-validate-minlength defines the required min length of the form field's value
<b>Note that the correct form field type is very important for the validation!</b>

``` bash
this.validationSuccessfully
```
returns true in your component, if the validation is successfully

### Multi language
Nuxt-Run has integrated nuxt-i18n for multi language. <br>
For detailed explaination, checkout https://github.com/nuxt-community/nuxt-i18n

1. change/add/remove languages in nuxt.config.js
2. define the translation in /lang/text-translation.js
3. place language vars into your components, for example {{ $t('siteheader.headline') }}
4. if you also want to translate the url paths, change it in /lang/url-translation.js

#### Language Switcher
``` bash
<nuxt-link :to="switchLocalePath('en')">English</nuxt-link>
<nuxt-link :to="switchLocalePath('de')">Deutsch</nuxt-link>
```

#### The Nuxt-Link
If you decide to use nuxt-i18n, you have to modify the nuxt-link as shown here:
``` bash
<nuxt-link :to="localePath('subpage')">Subpage</nuxt-link>
```
instead of:
``` bash
<nuxt-link to="/subpage">Subpage</nuxt-link>
```

### Usefull Stuff
#### Robots
is integrated (https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nuxtjs/robots)
#### Sitemap
is integrated (https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nuxtjs/sitemap)
#### Focus inputs
This Vue Directive also solves issues with focussing inputs on mobile devices!
``` bash
<button v-focus-input="'.siteheader-search'">Focus search input</button>
```
#### Click Outside
Vue Directive to call a method function if the user clicks outside that element.
Append this to your wished HTML-element:
``` bash
v-click-outside="yourFunction"
```
#### Scroll To Element
https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-scrollto <br>
Have a nice smooth scroll to any element you want.
You can use it in your method functions:
``` bash
this.$scrollTo(this.$el);
this.$scrollTo(document.querySelector('.sitefooter'));
```
or as clickable element for users:
``` bash
<a href="#" v-scroll-to="'#element'">Scroll to #element</a>
 
<div id="element">
    Hi. I'm #element.
</div>
```

#### Set, delete or get value of cookie
Just import the utils/cookie file. So you can use the functions where ever you need it (plugin-files as well).
``` bash
import {getCookieValueOf, setCookie, deleteCookie} from '~/utils/cookies';

getCookieValueOf('yourCookieName');
setCookie('yourCookieName', 'your value');
deleteCookie('yourCookieName');
```

#### Format seconds to HHMMSS (for example: 00:05:00)
Just import the utils/toHHMMSS file. So you can use the functions where ever you need it (plugin-files as well).
``` bash
import {toHHMMSS} from '~/utils/toHHMMSS';

toHHMMSS(300, true, true, true);
```

#### JS Polyfills

Following polyfills are already integrated (to support older browsers like IE11):<br><br>
      polyfill-entries <br>
      polyfill-intersection-observer<br>
      polyfill-object-fit (https://github.com/constancecchen/object-fit-polyfill)
      
To enable object-fit: cover on images and videos for older browsers add
``` bash
data-object-fit="cover"
```
to the Image-HTML-Tag. 
! Define it also in the CSS as usual for modern browsers. !
      
### Browser Support
**iOS** > 9  
**Android** > 4.4  
**IE** = 11  
**Edge** > 12  
**Firefox** > 50  
**Chrome** > 55
